Version 1.0 (In development)
----------------------------
Woohoo, wok is no longer in beta!
### Features
-   The built in development server now auto reloads when files changes.
    [robatron].
-   A new contributed hook, `wok.contrib.hooks.compile_sass`, that does exactly
    what it says on the tin [robatron].

### Fixes
-   The hook `site.output.post` is now only run once, not once per file.

Version 0.9
-----------
### Features
-   Site hooks, for arbitrary inserting python code into the rendering process.
-   Add a documentation wok site.
-   New template variable, `site.slugs`, to access pages in a url-agnostic way.
-   Date, datetime, and time url variables.

Version 0.8.2
-------------
### Fixes
-   Fix Github issue 62, in which the next page object was not set on the first
    page of a two page group.
-   Dates, datetimes, and times now have a default value of `None` instead of
    the epoch time.

Version 0.8.1
-------------
### Features
-   New template variable, `site.slugs`, which is a dictionary from slugs to
    pages.
-   New variables for url generation: date, time, and datetime, which can be
    used to make urls like "/blog/2012/01/26/new-wok-version"
-   There is now a doc site, which is a simple wok site that explains how to
    use wok, and serves as a simple example.

Version 0.8
-----------
### Features
-   Pagination now has saner sorting defaults.
-   Raw author objects will now print out nicely in templates.
-   Added `make_file` metadata option.
-   Previews can be specified, both as part of content, or metadata headers.
-   Add option to not put "index.html" on the end of URLs, for prettification.

### Fixes
-   The `published` metadata option will now prevent pages from showing up in
    any page's metadata, as intended.

### Deprecated
-   URL patterns should use {ext} instead of {type} to specify the extension
    that was used on the template, because type is confusing, being the same
    name as the metadata option that specifies the template to choose.

Version 0.7
-----------
### Features
-   Define tags and authors as YAML lists, instead of CSV.
-   File format independence. Non-html files can now be generated.
-   The options menu is a little more user friendly now. [robatron]

### Fixes
-   Pages without a YAML header won't break things now.
-   Fixed date/time handling.

### Deprecated
-   The old way of doing comma separated tags and authors will continue to
    work, but will be removed in 0.8.

Version 0.6.3
-------------
### Fixes
-   Somehow date handling got broken. Make it better.

Version 0.6.2
-------------
### Features
-   Authors can now be a list of users.
-   If the current directory doesn't appear to be a wok site, wok will refuse
    to run.
-   Change some logging message.

### Fixes
-   A pagination page that only has one page won't crash anymore.

Version 0.6.1
-------------
### Features
-   Added `page.date` and `page.time` template variables.

### Fixes
-   Make custom variables in pages not propagate to later pages.
-   Make orphan pages only print an error, not throw an exception.

Version 0.6
-----------
### Features
-   Pagination

### Other
-   Now using Python's built in logging module.

Version 0.5.1
-------------
### Fixes
-   Fix a bug related to optionally depending on pygments.
-   Fix some output formatting.

Version 0.5
-----------
### Features
-   The structure of the generated files is now user configurable.
-   New configuration option: `author`. See docs for more info.
-   Markdown, Pygments, and Docutils dependencies are now optional.
-   Output from wok will now wrap to terminal windows.

### Other
-   The README now references some sample sites.
-   Added a license. Wok is now officially open source!
-   Tweaked output formats.
-   Page metadata is now stored in a more consistent way. Sure, you don't care, but I do. :)

Version 0.4
-----------
### Features
-   Added a built in testing server, to easily test absolute links on the site.
-   Add `--version` option.
-   Added `site.pages`, a flat list of the pages of the site.
-   Added `site.categories`, a dictionary:
    `{top level categories : immediate children of that category}`.
-   Added page.url field, settable in a page's header and accessible from
    templates.
-   Started adding unit tests.

### Fixes
-   Fix `Page.author` to actually parse author strings right.


Version 0.3
-----------
-   Add optional syntax highlighting using [Pygments][pyg].
-   Add tags for pages.
-   Add `--verbose` (`-v`) and `--quiet` (`-q`) options to the script.

[pyg]: http://pygments.org

Version 0.2.2
-------------
-   Improve the sample site.
-   Enable syntax highlighting for Markdown.
-   Fix requirements for PyPI/pip

Version 0.2.1
-------------
-   Add a sample site.
-   Actually enable reStructuredText support.
-   Don't try to parse hidden files.
-   Fix datetime handling.
-   Media directory is now optional.
-   Make output files in a tree structure based on category.

Version 0.2
-----------
-   Initial support for reStructuredText.
-   Installable package.
-   Bug fixes based on user feedback.

Version 0.1
-----------
-   First release.
