wok
===
wok is a static website generator. It turns a pile of templates, content, and
resources (like CSS and images) into a neat stack of plain html.

The idea is that you don't need a big PHP engine generating every page every
visit: you can generate them all ahead of time, and only regenerate things
when something has changed. A good way this could be done would be with a
post-commit hook on a git repository containing your content or layout.

I made wok because projects like [Jekyll][jekyll], [Hyde][hyde], and
[Static][static] were intriguing, but in the end didn't quite match what I
wanted to do with my website. So I am writing my own.

[jekyll]: https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll
[hyde]: https://github.com/lakshmivyas/hyde 
[static]: http://static.newqdev.com/ 

Sample Sites
------------
A bare bones site is included in the wok git repo, in the `sample` directory.

For some real world examples check out these sites.

-    [robmd.net](http://robmd.net)
-    Your site here! If you are using wok to generate sites, and don't mind serving as an example, let me know and I will add a link to your site here.

Installation
------------
Note that wok is in alpha. It is under active development, and its features are
still in flux and there are probably bugs. That being said, it is still quite
usable. The recommended way to install wok is from the [Python Package
Index][pypi] with this command.

    sudo pip install wok

Alternative, if you want to hack on wok or just need the latest code, you can
run from git head, and if you want to you can install to your system
directories with this command.

    sudo python2 setup.py install

[pypi]: http://pypi.python.org/pypi

Usage
-----
To use wok, go to the directory where your site files are located, and issue
the command `wok`.  For now, no output will be given unless something goes
wrong. If it returns without error, you should have a shiny new output folder
containing some html, and your media that represents your shiny new site.

To aid in testing links on the site, wok includes a development server. The
commnds on that particular file say:

>Do *NOT* attempt to use this as anything resembling a production server. It is
>meant to be used as a development test server only.

This test server is slow, and likely insecure, but for local testing of the
site during development, it is really convenient.

wok pulls the pieces of your site from three places. For each of these places,
you can modify the path wok looks for them in the config file.

### Content ###
Pulled from a directory named `content` by default. Content is written in a
mark up language, or as plain text, with an optional YAML header section. The
directory structure of the file mean nothing to wok. It builds the structure
of the site based on the titles and the category meta data.

Since wok uses lightweight mark up languages like [Markdown][mkd] and
[reStructuredText][rst], it is easy to do nice formatting in the pages without
using a GUI editor or a complicated language like HTML. Built in syntax
highlighting and media copying make things even easier.

[mkd]: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
[rst]: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html

[More info][more_content]

[more_content]: https://github.com/mythmon/wok/wiki/Content

### Templates ###
Pulled from `templates` by default. wok uses [Jinja2][jinja] templates, with
various variables exposed to build pages. This is a very flexible temperating
environment, with control flow, filters and other ways to slice and dice the
data that wok gives you.

[More info][more_templates]

[more_templates]: https://github.com/mythmon/wok/wiki/Templates
[jinja]: http://jinja.pocoo.org/

### Media ###
Media is pretty simple. It is intended to be used for things like site wide
images, style sheets and javascript. wok will copy everything from the media
directory straight to the output directory before generating anything. This
means that generated content can overwrite media.

Configuration
-------------
Settings can be changed in the file `config` in the current directory.

Possible configuration options (and their defaults) are

-   output_dir ('output') - Where the outputted files are put.
-   content_dir ('content') - Where to find the content.
-   templates_dir ('templates') - Where the templates are.
-   media_dir ('media') - Where the media files are copied from.
-   site_title ('Some Random wok Site') - Available to templates as
    `site.title.
