title: Configuration
slug: config
category: docs
---
Settings can be changed in the file `config` in the site's root directory.
The file is a YAML file. Possible configuration options (and their defaults)
are:

- `output_dir` ('output') - The directory in which to place the generated
  files, e.g., `output_dir: output`.
- `content_dir` ('content') - The directory where content files are stored,
  e.g., `content_dir: content`.
- `templates_dir` ('templates') - The directory where templates are stored,
  e.g., `templates_dir: templates`.
- `media_dir` ('media') - Where the media files are copied from, e.g.,
  `media_dir: media`.
- `site_title` ('Some Random wok Site') - Context variable for the title of the
  site. Available to templates as `{{ site.title }}`.
- `author` (No default) - Context variable for the main author of the site.
  Always available to the templates as `{{ site.author }}`, and provides a
  default for the `{{ page.author }}` variable if it is not defined in the
  [page's metadata][content].
- `url_pattern` (`/{category}/{slug}.html`) - The pattern used to name and
  place the output files. The default produces URLs
  like`/category/subcategory/foo.html`. To get "wordpress style" urls, you
  could use `/{category}/{slug}/index.html`. For more information, please see
  the [URL management page][URLs].
- `url_include_index` (true) - If this option is turned off, then `index.*` on
  the end of urls will be removed in templates. This will turn the url
  `/docs/config/index.html` into `/docs/config/`.
- `relative_urls` (false) - If this option is turned on, then any urls
  generated will not include a leading '/'. If this is false, all urls
  generated will include a leading '/'.
- `rst_doctitle` (false) - Disable rst/docutils' promotion of a lone top-level
  section title to document title (was enabled up to wok 1.1.1 - by mistake).
  Might be optionally enabled here (or on per page basis) again - for backwards
  compatibility.

[content]: /docs/content/
[URLs]: /docs/urls/
