title: Hooks
category: docs
---
Since version 0.9, wok provides a hook interface to add custom python code to
the site generation pipeline.

To use hooks, make a new directory in your site root named `hooks`. In this 
directory, make the file `__hooks__.py`. For example:

    ::text
    site-root/
        |-- config
        |-- content/
        |-- hooks/
        |   |-- __hooks__.py
        |   |-- hook_foo.py
        |   `-- hook_bar.py
        |
        |-- media/
        |-- output/
        `-- templates/


From the `__hooks__.py` file, wok will import the variable `hooks`. 
This should be a dictionary; The keys are the hook names below, and the values 
are lists of functions (or other callables) to run for the hooks. Simply give 
the names of the functions and (but do not invoke them.) For example:

    ::python
    ''' __hooks__.py

    Attach Python functions to wok hooks.
    '''

    import hook_foo
    import hook_bar

    # The `hooks` dictionary that wok will import
    hooks = {
        'site.start': [hook_foo.download_images],
        'site.content.gather.post': [hook_bar.process_pages]
    }

If the hooks below have parameters, the listed functions should accept
those parameters. Hooks will be run in the order they appear below.

Available hooks
---------------
Below are the available hooks, when they will be run, and the arguments they
will pass to the hooked functions (if any.)

###List of hooks

- [site.start](#site.start)
- [site.output.pre](#site.output.pre)
- [site.output.post](#site.output.post)
- [site.content.gather.pre](#site.content.gather.pre)
- [site.content.gather.post](#site.content.gather.post)
- [page.render.pre](#page.render.pre)
- [page.render.post](#page.render.post)
- [page.meta.pre](#page.meta.pre)
- [page.meta.post](#page.meta.post)
- [page.template.pre](#page.template.pre)
- [page.template.post](#page.template.post)
- [site.done](#site.done)

### Details

<!-- This first one needs to be wrapped in a p tag, because it doesn't happen automatically for some reason...? -->

`site.start()` <a name="site.start"> </a>
:   <p>Called before anything else has started, except for the loading of hooks.
    This would be a good time to modify the content, templates, or the files in
    the media directory.</p>

`site.output.pre(output_path)` <a name="site.output.pre"> </a>
:   `output_path`
    :   The path to the output directory.
:   This path will run before the output directory is populated by the media,
    and after any existing output files have been deleted. You can add files
    that may be overwritten by the media files or the site content.

`site.output.post(output_path)` <a name="site.output.post"> </a>
:   `output_path`
    :   The path to the output directory.
:   This hook will run after the output directory is populated by the media,
    and before the content pages have started to be processed. You can use this
    to modify, overwrite, or otherwise fiddle with the media directory after it
    has been copied to the output directory.

`site.content.gather.pre()` <a name="site.content.gather.pre"> </a>
:   Return value
    :   List of `Page` objects to add to the list of pages.
:   This hook will run before wok gathers content pages, and can be used to add
    pages that don't exist on disk.

`site.content.gather.post(pages)` <a name="site.content.gather.post"> </a>
:   `pages`
    :   The list of pages that wok has gathered from the content directory, and
        any other hooks that have run. Also includes the duplicated versions of
        paginated pages.
:   Return value
    :   List of `Page` objects to add to the list of pages.
:   This hook will run after wok gathers content pages, and can be used to add
    pages that don't exist on disk, or to remove pages added by other means. If
    you modify the list of pages received, those changes will take effect in
    wok. You may also return pages to add.

`page.render.pre(page)` <a name="page.render.pre"> </a>
:   `page`
    :   The current page object that is being processed.
:   This hook will be called for each page before the page is rendered by
    Markdown, reStructuredText, etc. The unrendered text will be in the
    variable `page.original`, if there is an original text. Keep in mind that
    some pages won't be run through this hook because they come from other
    sources, such as hooks, or pagination.

`page.render.post(page)` <a name="page.render.post"> </a>
:   `page`
    :   The current page object that is being processed.
:   This hook will be called for each page right after the page is rendered by
    Markdown, reStructuredText, etc. The unrendered text will be in the
    variable `page.original`, and the rendered text will be in the meta
    variable `page.meta['content']. Keep in mind that some pages won't be run
    through this hook because they come from other sources, such as hooks, or
    pagination.

`page.meta.pre(page)` <a name="page.render.pre"> </a>
:   `page`
    :   The current page object that is being processed.
:   This hook will be called for each page before the page has it's meta data
    filled in. Some metadata will exist, but it will be in an unnormalized
    state.

`page.meta.post(page)` <a name="page.render.post"> </a>
:   `page`
    :   The current page object that is being processed.
:   This hook will be called for each page right after the page has it's meta
    data filled in and normalized.

`page.template.pre(page, templ_vars)` <a name="page.template.pre"> </a>
:   `page`
    :   The current page object that is being processed.
:   `templ_vars`
    :   A dictionary of the variables that will be sent to the template engine.
        See the documentation on [templates][] for its normal contents.
:   This hook will be called for each page before the page is sent to
    the template engine. At this point, the content has been transformed
    from markup input (such as markdown) to html output, if applicable.
    The transformed version is in `templ_vars['content']`. If you
    modify the `templ_vars` parameter, those changes will be visible to
    the template engine. The given functions should take in these two
    variables.

[templates]: /docs/templates/

`page.template.post(page)` <a name="page.template.postpage"> </a>
:   `page`
    :   The current page being processed.
:   This hook will be called after the page has been processed by the template
    engine. The next step will be write the file to disk, if applicable, so any
    last minute changes should happen here.

`site.done()` <a name="site.done"> </a>
:   Called after wok has finished everything. This would be a good time to make
    any general modifications to the output, or to do something like upload the
    site for distribution. If the `--server` option has been specified, this
    will happen before the server is run.
