title: Renders
category: docs
---
Wok supports several different _renderers_, which take the content of the site
and transform it into HTML that is ready to be processed by the rest of wok.
The currently supports renders are

- Markdown
- reStructuredText
- Textile
- Plain
- Raw

When wok initializes, it builds a list of renderers based on what systems you
have installed on your system; if Markdown is available, but Textile is not,
then Textile will not be loaded, but Markdown will be.

When processing a content, wok examines the _file extension_ to determine what
renderer to use.For example, the markdown renderer will render files names with
`.markdown`, `.mkd`, and `.md` file extensions.

Details
-------
### Markdown
Extensions: `.markdown`, `.mkd`, `.md`

The ability to render markdown is actually provided by two independent
libraries. Wok will use either the [`Markdown`][mkd], or the
[`markdown2`][mkd2] libraries to render files. If Markdown is found, it will be
used, and if it is not found, wok will search for Markdown2. For the most part,
they should handle content equivalently, but they way they handle syntax
highlighting differs. See below for more details

> Note: `Markdown` and `markdown2` are not related, except that they both
> render markdown content. `markdown2` is not the new version of `Markdown`

[mkd]: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/Markdown
[mkd2]: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/markdown2

### reStructuredText
Extensions: `.rst`

reStructuredText documents are rendered by the [`docutils`][] library. For
information about writing content in reStructuredText, check out the [Quick
_re_Structured_Text_][quickrst] guide.

[docutils]: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/docutils
[quickrst]: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html

### Textile
Extensions: `.textile`

Textile documents are processed by the [`textile`][] library. For a reference
on how to write Textile documents, you can read the [Hobix Textile
Reference][txtguide]

[textile]: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/textile
[txtguide]: http://redcloth.org/hobix.com/textile/

### Plain
Extensions: `.txt`

The plain renderer handles text documents. It will include text files without
any processing, except to convert all new lines to HTML `<br>` elements. This
way the text in the HTML document has the same line breaks as the file in a
text editor. This renderer does not depend on any libraries, so is always
enabled.

### Raw
The raw renderer uses the content of files without any processing at all. It is
also the default fall back render: if no other renderer has a matching
extension, it will be used. This means that you can use any content that
already has stylign applied, or that you do not want to style, such as directly
writing HTML or including CSV files.

Syntax Highlighting
-------------------
Wok can use [Pygments][pyg] to do syntax highlighting. It will be automatically
enabled if you mark a block of text as code, and assign it a language. Marking
a block of text is different with each renderer.

[pyg]: http://pygments.org

### Renders

#### In reStructuredText

    ::rst
    ..sourcecode:: python

        class Foo(object):
            pass

That is, define a new block with the directive `sourcecode`. Give it a
parameter of the language name. Then the code must be separated from the
directive by a blank line, and be indented.

#### In Markdown (with Markdown)

        ::markdown
        ::python
        class Foo(object):
            pass

That is, make a code block whose first line is `::<language name>`. This will
hide that first line, and highlight the code.

#### In Markdown (with markdown2)

        ::markdown
        ```python
        class Foo(object):
            pass
        ```

The markdown2 library uses fenced code blocks instead of the `::<language
name>` method. Surround the code blocks with lines containing only \`\`\`
(which don't need to be indented like normal code blocks, by the way). To force
syntax highlighting for a language, add the language name to the end of the
first line, like in the example.

### CSS
Doing this will only wrap the code in CSS classes, it doesn't actually apply
any styles. To do that you need to include a Pygments style CSS sheet. To get
one of these style sheets, run this command

    ::console
    $ pygmentize -S default -f html

This will dump a style definition onto stdout. This command gives the default
style, but there are others available. Drop the outputted file into your media
directory, and include the css in one of your templates and you are good to go!

Alternatively, you could download a pre-genered pygments CSS file from [this
repository][pygcss].

[pygcss]: https://github.com/Anomareh/pygments-styles-dump
